# Text-Recognition
# Offline handwriting recognition involves the automatic conversion of text in an image into letter codes that are usable within computer and text-processing applications. In simple terms, it is the text extraction from your handwritten notebooks/pages. Why called offline? The point being that there is an online text recognition system, which is referred for text that is digitally generated by using tools like stylus, apple pencil, etc.

#Approach

Step1 :  Build a digit(0-9) + A-Z characters classifier using a CNN architecture.
Step2:  Apply character segmentation for the handwritten word image.
Step3:  Classify each segmented letter and then get the final word in the image.
#Recognition and Post-Processing 
1. The sort contours function is used to get the correct order of individual characters for correct output extraction. In this case for extracting a single word, a left to right sorting of individual characters is needed.
2. The get letters function fetches the list of letters and get word function gets the individual word.
# Conclusion 
This notebook is an illustration of how a character segmentation and classification approach can be used for offline handwritten text extraction. In order to improve the model, the model should be trained on the complete dataset, this notebook was trained on slightly less number of images due to session constraints. Also, for applying this method to a complete paragraph, following approach can be used, *line segmentation >> word segmentation >> character segmentation >> classification >> post-processing*.
